Back to [main page](https://logan-trine.github.io/tvfilmbookreview/).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

9/6/2020
# Static and Dynamic Websites
This week I learned about the difference between a static and a dynamic website. Static sites are simple, usually made in only HTML or basic Javascript. They are quick, cheap, and easy to make. They do not change based on the user and if they have any interactivity, it is client-side. Dynamic websites on the other hand are generally used for more complex sites. They can be created in other languages along with HTML or Javascript. They can offer a more interactive and personalized experience for the user. These sites often are not free and they take time and effort to set up. Amazon is an example of a dynamic site.

This site, tvfilmbookreview, on the other hand, is an example of a static site. Any changes made to it are made in the source code and anyone who visits it will get the same experience. Despite being simpler, there are a few things that I have learned so far that I have applied here. First of all, I have used several different text format ideas such as headers and bullets. I have also included embedded links to different pages (the main page and this blog page). I plan on finding ways to use other things that I learn as well.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

9/13/2020

# The History and Current State of Content Management Systems 
## Introduction
Business is not what it used to be. Since the introduction of the Internet and its rise in popularity, more and more businesses have been conducting their practice online. It makes sense. The Internet is an avenue to make your good or service available to anyone. Or at least to advertise it. With the realization that the Internet was the future, more time and money was spent on streamlining the process of bringing content to consumers. In 2020, it is more surprising for a business not to have an online presence than it is to have one. Web content can support several different vital business ideas. In this blog post I will be describing some of these business ideas and specific events involving them.
## Personalization
Personalization is fairly self-explanatory. If you have ever searched something online only to find a Facebook ad the next day with similar content, you understand that businesses try to collect data to tailor content to you. They use information you give them to target you with specific content. A less predatory example of personalization is the company Flipboard. They compile news from many sources and personalize it to fit what you want to see. When you first use their app, they ask you what types of subjects and content you are interested in. After that they tailor your Flipboard news feed to show you what types of stories and articles you want to see. Flipboard is an example of a profile-based personalization company. Other types of personalization are behavior-based and campaign-based. Behavior-based involves using previous behavior to predict future behavior. Facebook and other predatory companies tend to use this type of personalization. Campaign-based is when certain content is shown to people who meet some criteria. Along with personalization, websites will keep the surrounding format consistent. This means that they will have the same text format, color scheme, background, branding, etc.
## Advanced Websites
Advanced websites show why content management systems are necessary. On a website with a lot of content and pages, more and more problems start to appear without a CMS. It becomes exponentially more difficult to try to keep a consistent style to the pages and the time to correct mistakes becomes great. A CMS can alleviate a lot of the burden. It can offer a format and certain options to make the site consistent. It can also provide templates and other design options that make it easy for laymen to create pages themselves without much training.
## Multiple Publications
Before content management systems were invented, creating and publishing the same content across different formats was timely and inefficient. The work practically had to be done twice in most cases. Take books for example. In most cases books were written and then someone had to transcribe the text and format it again before publishing it online. Content management systems more or less fixed this issue. With CMSs, publications can be simultaneous. If content is created in such a way that it is independent of format, it can be made to fit different contexts much easier than if it was originally created specifically for one such context.
## E-Commerce
E-commerce is perhaps the most recognizable business aspect improved or created by the emergence of content management systems. As soon as the world wide web was able to handle it, e-commerce began to take over online business. Businesses started creating online catalogs as an avenue to conduct business. These catalogs connected with older systems to create a similar experience to physical stores. A catalog system is basically a database that collects, manages, and publishes information. It also can make monetary transactions.  Other considerations in e-commerce were how the site interacted with existing systems and the process customers went through to make a transaction on the site.
## Knowledge Management
Knowledge management and content management are similar yet different. While content management is about “collection and distribution”, knowledge management is about “discovery and synthesis”. (Boiko) Knowledge management without proper content management can lead to a whole lot of data without a way to parse it. Applying a content management system after knowledge management can lead to a much more usable and user-friendly system. A company that has done years of research and gathered terabytes of data would want a way to efficiently index and search this data once it becomes large enough.
## Online Communities
Online communities have also become common after the creation of content management systems. An online community is similar to an audience in that all participants have something in common. They differ in that there is intercommunication between the members of the community. The interactions aren’t between a speaker and audience members, but between any subgroup of the community to another subgroup. An example of an online community system is Reddit. On that site you are able to find a community for nearly any subject and there is a system to discuss the subject with others that hold the same interest.
## Conclusion
There are many aspects of business that have been affected by the coming of content management systems. The aforementioned are the main parts but there are certainly others. Each of these parts need the capacities of a CMS to function at their maximum potential.
## References:
Boiko, B. (2005). Content Management Bible, 2nd ed. Indianapolis, Ind: Wiley.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

9/20/2020

# The Organization and Teams of a Successful Content Management System
## Introduction
Any organization of reasonable size needs some sort of organizational structure. Even small organizations benefit greatly from having a clear and consistent organizational structure. Content management systems are no different. They run optimally only when they are properly organized and structured. This also reflects on the organization that the content management system is tied to. There are several teams involved with a CMS that interact with one another to create a high-quality system. Even with proper organization, integration, and management, problems can still arise that need to be addressed.
## What a Content Management System Does for the Organization It Is a Part Of
It is possible to have a flawless CMS and it still be useless to the organization it is tied to. A CMS should be created with the goals and methods of the parent organization in mind. The Content Management Bible describes four ways that a CMS is integrated into the organization. The first way is that it coalesces different things such as departments and job types into a single system. The second way is that it gathers its data from all parts of the organization. The third way is that it “unifies the organization’s communications to itself” through Internet and intranet sites. (Boiko) The final way is that it integrates into the existing information management system. These aspects of integration have varying levels of importance, depending on what the organization’s goals and history are.
## The Teams Associated with The Content Management System
A content management system would ideally be created at nearly the same time as the organization itself. This is not always the case, however. Oftentimes, the creators of the organization do not initially see the need for a CMS, or they overlook its usefulness. Boiko mentions that usually one part of an organization first discovers this need for a CMS. The four possible teams that he mentions are likely to come to this realization were the business, IT, corporate communications, and marketing departments. The start of the CMS in an established organization is very important to do correctly. It is easy to mess up. The founding department needs to consider the needs of the other departments and the importance of having a unified CMS. If the CMS is created with only one department’s interests and needs in mind, it will not be sustainable for the organization. This means that there needs to be a certain structure to share information.
## Information Flow in an Organization
The hierarchy of an organization can be visually represented with a branching root structure. At the top of the structure is the CEO. This individual is connected to the next level, which could be department heads. Each department head is connected to their managers and each manager is connected to their team leaders. Each team leader is connected to the bottom level, the low-level employee. This structure can be seen on page 208 of The Content Management Bible. Information can either flow upwards (reports and presentations), downwards (plans and policies), or laterally (tips and training resources). A content management system can apply this same system to content and data in an organization. 
## What Each Team Provides for a Content Management System
As you could probably gather from last week’s blog post, a content management system requires a broad set of skilled players to be implemented and managed. If we look through a broader lens, we could see that certain teams and their specific skills can help the initial stages of creating a CMS for an organization. These teams include, but are not limited to, IT, business, marketing, and editorial. The IT team deals with the infrastructure of the CMS. The business team provides the valuable content and functionality of the CMS. The marketing team handles publications and the editorial team makes sure that the content is consistent in quality and format.
## Problems Content Management System Teams Can Encounter
The Content Management Bible describes various problems that the content management teams can encounter when trying to implement a CMS. One such problem is the issue of ownership. The department that creates the CMS may think that they should have ownership of it when in reality it should be decided by all cooperating teams. It is very possible that inter-team rivalries will come to the forefront if this issue is not handled correctly. Another issue is that of an agreed-upon theme. Every team should have some input on deciding what the content model of the CMS will be. It could jeopardize the CMS if there is discord in this decision. A third problem that is discussed involves perceived or real team power. A team can run into the problem that they do not have enough power to create meaningful progress. If a group feels this way, steps need to be taken to empower them so that they can get their job done.
## Conclusion
There are many aspects of a successful content management system. Many of these parts come into play during the creation of the CMS. An organization needs to be mindful of the teams in play and potential problems that could arise.
## References:
Boiko, B. (2005). Content Management Bible, 2nd ed. Indianapolis, Ind: Wiley.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

10/17/2020

# Conducting a Content Audit

Although part of the knowledge that I have learned from Content Management Systems isn’t immediately applicable to me, some of the things that I have learned about CMSs have been applied to the blog posts that I have written throughout the class. The website that I made for my blog is static and simple, so it does not need complex rules and formats. I have kept the content I post on it simple and clear. 

I collect and author content by researching and writing about the topic at hand. Nothing special goes into this process outside of figuring out the main topics and subtopics that I will be discussing and then writing about them. My management system is simple as well. If something needs to be changed or reformatted, I will go to the source code and change it. My publishing system is equally simple. I type my blog post into Word to check for errors and then copy it over to my repository on GitHub. After that, I apply text formats if needed and commit the changes to my blog post page.

From this class I have gained a new appreciation of content management and content creation. The first module that I wrote had no special formatting and was written inside GitHub, not on Word to begin with. Since then I have evolved my content creation to encompass these things, along with others. Not only that, but I have progressed by learning more about what to do and what not to do when authoring and publishing content. Now I consider elements that I never knew existed before taking this class. I develop content with this new knowledge in mind. 


